---
layout: default
title: C++ primer Chapter 5
category: C++
---
##Chapter 5
###Expression Statement
####The simplest statement is null statement. It is just a ';'.
####If the variable is delared in if,while,for or switch, the variable can not live outside these blocks.
####Switch statement. It is easy but I always forget how to use it. Usage: switch(ch){ case 'a':....;break; case 'b':....;break;} It is obvious to notice that I stress the break statement. By using break statment, we can avoid unnecessary staement being run. If none of the case is suitable, the a default staement is required to make all case be considered.
####In C++11, the new for statement is used. Usage: for(declaration: expression) statement. declaration is a variable and all elements of the list should be able to change into this variable kind so it's safe to use auto kind. In fact, we have used it in Chapter 3.
####goto statement is used to jump. Usage: goto label; label is another kind of statement, usage: end: return. The 'end:' here is a label.
####An impotant thing to notice: 
          begin:
           int sz=get_size();
           if(sz<9) goto begin; //In this way, the sz would be destroyed when the goto is run, and it's not good.
###Exception Management
####throw expression is used to declare a problem and raise an exception. Usage: if(a1!=a2) throw runtime_error("It is not good!");
####About the exception kind,it is declared in stdexcept.h, it includes:
      exception, runtime_error, range_error, overflow_error, underflow_error, logic_error, domain_error, invalid_argument, length_error, out_of_range.
####try expression is used to handle the exception. It starts with try and is followed with many catch, and catch is exception handler.
    Usage:try{
              program-statements
          }catch(expression-delaration){
              handler statement
          }catch(...){...}
    More specifically, catch(runtime_error err){cout<<err.what()<<"It is wrong!"<<endl;...;}
####If no catch is suitable, the program would go to the terminate expression and finally lead to the end of this program.
