---
layout: default
title: C++ primer Chapter3
category: C++
---
##Chapter 3
###String
####It's better to use string instead of char. Usage: string S(n,'c'); it means S="ccccccccccccc...";
####getline(is,s); means copy a line to s from is. Usage: getline(cin,s);
####S.size() returns the length of S.
####In C++ 11, the for has a new usage: for(declaration:expression). For example,we use this: string str; for(auto c:str)...;By using for(auto &c:str), we can change some letter in a string.
###Vector
####Vector is a kind of class template. Usage: vector<T> v1;vector<T> v2(10);/*it has ten elements.*/vector<T> v3{10};/*so it has one element and it's ten.*/ Accordingly, the () is used for construction and {} is used for list initialization.
####We use push_back to add elements to a vector.Usage:v1.push_pack();v1.size() returns its length.
####V.begin() and v.end() can be used as iterator. *iter can get that element. It is kind of like pointer.
####To test whether somewhere is empty and we can use *iter.empty() or iter->empty();
####When we have it1-it2 and we will get the distance between them.
###Array
####When using char array and we have to consider the condition of '\0'. For example, const char a[6]="Daniel"; It would make mistake for it doesn't consider '\0'.
####It is natural to combine pointer with array.Usage: string nums={"one","two","three","four"}; string *p=&nums[0];/*It also can be replaced by string *p=nums;*/
####To get the head and the end of an array, special pointer can be effective: int *b=begin(array);int *e=end(array);
####Vector can be initialized by array,Usage: vector<int> V1(begin(array),end(array)).
