---
layout: default
title: C++ Primer Chapter6
category: C++
---
##Chapter 6
###When a function is called, two main work are finished:1.make the parameter be the argument.2.suspend the calling function and jump to the called function. When a return is met and executed, the called function ends.
###The parameter can be void, the easiest to make an empty parameter is using void. Usage: void fi(void) or void fi(). None functions can return array or function, however, it can return a pointer which points to array or function.
###Local Variable
####The object declared inside a funtion would be destoryed after the function ends. However, by using static, the object won't be destoryed until the whole program ends.
####When a function is running, it would copy the argument to the paramter, it's like p=a; So it won't change the aragument's value. However, by using reference, like void reset(int &i){}. The argument would be changed in the function.
####Here, using reference in the function is recommended because it's more effective.
####Using const is also recommended in the function. Usage: find_char(const string &s, char c, int &occurs), it can be called by find_char("hello",'o',ctr). If we are not using const, then this circumstances can not be compiled.
####Array's reference as a parameter is quite convenience, Usage:void print(int (&arr)[]){}. Remeber, the "()" cannot be missed.
###The main function
####The main function actually has two parameters: int argc:the string number of argv[], char *argv[]: strings
###The changeable function
####The initialzier_list can be used when the numbers of parameters varys, it's just like vector. Usage: void error_msg(initializer_list<string> li){};...;error_msg({"nice","to","meet","you"}). Remeber, the "{}" can not be missed.
####Actually, it is quite natural to think that there may exist a function can return a list or a vector, just like being improved in C++ 11.
