---
layout: default
title: C++ primer Chapter2
category: C++
---
##Chapter 2
###It took me two days to finish reading chapter2 because I have to do the body test in Friday and I felt uncomfortable after that. Anyhow I managed to finish this chapter.
###The minimal memory block is called 'byte', and the basic storage unit is called 'word'. 1 byte=8 bit, 1 word=4 or 8 byte.
###Unsigned type means it can only be larger than 0, and signed type can be less than 0. unsigned char=0-255, signed char=-128-127.
###Starting with 0 and it's octal, starting with 0X and it's hex.
### '' is used for char and "" is used for string. Each string has an '\0' in the end, so it's actual length is one more than the surface.
###Object means a memory space with the ability to store and has a type. 
###Initialize is not assignment. Initialize means create an object and give it a value while assignment means erase the data and give a new one.
###Initialize: int us=0; int us={0}; int us(0); int us{0};
###Any variale outside the function is initialized as 0 and string is initialized as an empty string.
### By using extern can do declaration but no definition. It can be error when initializing a variable with an extern in the function.
### Reference is another name of the variable and it has to be initialized. It is not an object. usage: int &refval=ival;
###Pointer is an object and it doesn't have to be initialized. It stores address. Usage: int *p=&ival; So when using *p it means using ival.
###Const object can not be changed and therefore it has to be initialized.
####About const, the reference to const means the const variable's reference can only be const type. For example, it's wrong to use this: const int ci=1024; int &r2=ci; However, it's ok to use this: int i=9;const int &r=i; But it's not allowed to change i's value by changing r's value.
####Same as the reference to const, the pointer to const as const int *cptr, it's point cannot be changed from cptr.
####const pointer, usage: int *const cptr=&err;it can accutally be used to change err, but what remains is that the cptr would point to err forever.
###type alias can be achieved by typedef:typedef double wages; it means double=wages;
###alias declaration can be achieved by using: using SI=Sale-item;it means SI=Sales-item;

